Cambodia: Angkor Temples and Vanishing BirdsField Guides Tour InformationField Guides Incorporated
9433 Bee Cave Road • #2-105 • Austin • TX • 78733
512•263•7295 • fax 512•263•0117
www.fieldguides.com  ITINERARY
CAMBODIA: Angkor Temples and Vanishing Birds
February 3-19, 2024  We include here information for those interested in the 2024 Field Guides Cambodia tour:  A general introduction to the tour  
A description of the birding areas to be visited on the tour  
An abbreviated daily itinerary with some indication of the nature of each day’s birding outings

These additional materials will be made available to those who register for the tour:  An annotated list of the birds recorded on a previous year’s Field Guides trip to the area, with comments by guide(s) on notable species or sightings (may be downloaded from our web site)  
A detailed information bulletin with important logistical information and answers to questions regarding accommodations, air arrangements, clothing, currency, customs and immigration, documents, health precautions, and personal items  
A Field Guides checklist for preparing for and keeping track of the birds we see on the tour  
After the conclusion of the tour, a list of birds seen on the tour

Why Cambodia? Well, Phil and Sue Gregory had heard a lot about it and decided to take a trip there in 2008; it proved to be a fascinating journey combining some wonderful birds with one of the great legendary cultural sites at Angkor Wat and surrounds. Cambodia is what might be described as the “Last Chance to See” destination for mega-rare large waterbirds like Giant and White-shouldered ibis, Spot-billed Pelican, and Greater Adjutant, as well as the endangered Asian taxon of Sarus Crane, Oriental Darter, Lesser Adjutant, Painted and Milky storks, Pied Harrier, Bengal Florican, Asian Golden Weaver, and the recently described Mekong Wagtail. Population pressures, deforestation, and habitat degradation throughout Southeast Asia mean that relatively undeveloped Cambodia is the last or at least a very significant sanctuary for many of the above species.The Giant Ibis is one of the rarest birds in the world. This critically endangered species hangs on in a marshy woodland in north-central Cambodia, where we’ll make an attempt to find it, and the critically endangered White-shouldered Ibis that inhabits the same general area. Photograph by participant Kathleen John.Surrounded by Thailand, Laos, and Vietnam, Cambodia is a small country with a very turbulent past, most recently while under the murderous tyranny of the Khmer Rouge when millions of people died in forced labor camps in one of the darkest episodes of 20th Century history. But the country and its people have proven amazingly resilient despite all the turbulence, and Cambodia today is a modern Asian-style guided democracy, proud of its ancestral and cultural heritage and custodian of the World Heritage site of Angkor Wat and its many associated temples. The long Buddhist tradition can be witnessed in the polite and respectful nature of the people, and tourists are welcomed and encouraged as a way of providing jobs and income for the still largely agrarian society. Angkor is on the national flag, the national beer, the currency—it’s everywhere and is a truly fantastic spectacle—do bring those cameras!The land is mostly flat with some mountains around the border areas, has a coastline on the Indian Ocean, and is intensively farmed with rice paddies to feed the burgeoning population. Woodland is dry savanna type in the lowlands with scattered deciduous drought-resistant trees, and there are still some quite extensive (albeit disturbed) grasslands and many small wetlands. The cultivated and seasonally irrigated rice paddies are known as trepeangs, and they can be excellent birding habitat.Our tour is timed to coincide with the end of the dry season (in so far as these things can be predicted these days), with water levels high enough for the breeding storks and herons and roads again accessible.The cuisine is very simple, with rice and fish dishes predominating, and not too much in the way of spices. Happily, our recent trips found big gastronomic improvement and some nice curries and local meals were enjoyed. Coffee tends to be moderate but improving—surprising given the French colonial background—and good bread becoming easier to find.We visit the World Heritage temple complex at Angkor Wat, where, in addition to touring the site, we’ll bird the nearby area. We’ll watch for stand-outs like Black Baza and Forest Wagtail there. Photograph by guide Phil Gregory.We want to be sure you are on the right tour! Below is a description of the physical requirements of the tour. If you are concerned about the difficulty, please contact us about this and be sure to fully explain your concerns. We want to make sure you have a wonderful time with us, so if you are uncomfortable with the requirements, just let us know and we can help you find a better fitting tour! Field Guides will not charge you a change or cancellation fee if you opt out within 10 days of depositing.Physical Requirements of This TourTRAILS & WALKING: Moderate amounts of walking (up to 3 miles per day), mostly along gravel, tar, or dirt roadsides, with no steep climbs. On several days, we walk through grassland and woodland over uneven terrain (about 1/2 mile).  
POTENTIAL CHALLENGES: We have several longer drives on this tour. Participants should be able to step (and step down) 10-12 inches to get into and out of our vehicles.  
PACE: After breakfast (set for 5:00-5:30 a.m., rarely earlier), we bird until lunch time. Typically, we have an afternoon break followed by an optional session of birding or else continue traveling to our next destination. On some days, we have a boxed breakfast while birding or traveling, whilst lunch is in small cafes and restaurants.  
WEATHER: Temperatures will range from the low 60s at night to 90s F (25-35 C) during the day. Rain showers are a possibility.  
VEHICLE SEATING: So that each participant has equal opportunity during our travel, we employ a seat rotation system on all tours. Participants will need to be flexible enough to maneuver to the back of the vehicle on occasion. Those who experience motion sickness will need to bring adequate medication for the duration of the tour, as we are not able to reserve forward seats for medical conditions.  
BATHROOM BREAKS: Participants should be prepared to make comfort stops in nature, as there are simply no other options (away from our lodgings) on many sections of this tour’s route.  
OPTING OUT: Where we are staying multiple days in the same lodging, participants can easily opt to sit out a day or sometimes a half-day. This will not be possible on days when we are changing locations (as we do often on this tour).

If you are uncertain about whether this tour is a good match for your abilities, please don’t hesitate to contact our office; if they cannot directly answer your queries, they will put you in touch with the guide.About the Birding AreasKratie is located on the legendary Mekong River, here quite wide and dotted with gravel bars and islands. The rare and declining Irrawaddy River Dolphin lives here and is a big tourist attraction, and this is also the place to see the recently discovered Mekong Wagtail, a distinctive taxon (amazingly like an African Pied Wagtail!) that lives along sandbars and islets in the river and has a very restricted range. It was named Motacilla samveasnae for Sam Veasna, who sadly died of malaria not long before the species was formally described. Small Pratincole is usually seen on the sandbars too. Ponds nearby are worth checking for migrants and the rare Asian Golden Weaver.Tmatboey might be described as Giant Ibis central; the dry savanna woodland and seasonally flooded rice paddies (trepeangs) near this isolated village are where the critically endangered species still breeds—along with the almost equally rare White-shouldered Ibis, two of the Earth’s rarest species at one of their very last strongholds. We will walk through the woodlands and paddies and hope to see the birds as dawn comes and they prepare to vacate their roosts. The rangers may also know nest sites and we can encounter the birds feeding in the remaining wet patches, though this may entail some few miles of level walking. It’s a terrific place for owls, and the amazing local guide often find six species at daytime roosts, with Brown Fish-Owl and both Brown and Spotted Wood-owl roosting in thickets here. The rare White-rumped Falcon is also possible. Woodpeckers are unusually varied here with White-bellied, Great Slaty, Black-headed, Rufous-bellied and Yellow-crowned all major crowd pleasers.Siem Reap is the jumping off point for legendary Angkor Wat, a truly amazing place that is deservedly a World Heritage site. There is a substantial amount of forest remaining around the area, though much of the understory has been cleared, and a large moat, good for Oriental Darter and White-Pygmy Goose, encircles it. Black Baza is also possible, as are Red-breasted Parakeet, Hainan Blue-Flycatcher, White-throated Rock-Thrush and Forest Wagtail, and other Palearctic migrants will also be moving through at this time of year.The subsidiary temples are well worth a visit. The ruins at Angkor Tom (Bayon), near Angkor, are very impressive, and Angkor itself has a tremendous setting. We’ll have time to tour the site as well as bird the areas around it and you might want to think about coming a day or two early to enjoy the ruins at leisure, with excellent English-speaking temple guides readily available. Angkor must have been one of the wealthiest and indeed largest cities on Earth in the 12th century, and the astonishing vast temple complexes are monuments to Hindu and later Buddhist religious fanaticism.Prek Toal—Lake Tonle Sap is a very interesting, albeit heavily settled, destination, with miles of bamboo fish traps and so many houses on stilts it’s amazing that the fishery can still support so many people, though in 2012 there was a three-year shutdown of the fish traps implemented to try to get some fish stock recovery. It also supports a large Asian Openbill colony and about 40 pairs of Painted Storks, plus Lesser Adjutant and the rare and endangered Greater Adjutant, with Milky Stork also possible with a bit of luck.Cambodia hosts the largest breeding concentration of Painted Storks in southeast Asia at Tonle Sap. These colorful storks are listed as regionally threatened, but we should be able to get good views of them. Photograph by guide Doug Gochfeld.Ang Trepeang Thmor—This large wetland is a Khmer Rouge slave labor artifact upon an Angkorian base, that may have both Pheasant-tailed and Bronze-winged jacanas nearby, Cinnamon and Yellow bitterns, Knob-billed Duck, and White Pygmy-goose. Pied Harriers are a good possibility as well, and this area is the place to see the endangered Asian form of Sarus Crane, much darker than the Australian birds with a redder head and a slightly different call—a potential split as this is very far removed from that population. Owls are also good in some nearby dry thickets, with Spotted Wood Owl and good prospect, also Spotted Owlet and maybe Barn Owl.Changkran Roy is a village forest conservation area about 2 hours north of Siem Reap, with a blind now established and water points visible from it. We made our first visit in 2019 with great looks at Asian Stubtail, Siberian Blue Robin, Puff-throated, Pin-striped and Abbots’s babbler, White-rumped Shama, White-crested Laughing-thrush and Blyth’s Paradise-Flycatcher, whilst there is an excellent chance of Bar-bellied Pitta and Siamese Fireback.Baeng Toal is a village led conservation initiative in the lovely dry but dusty dipterocarp forest about three hours from Tmatboey. There is a vulture restaurant set up for the three species of Critically Endangered vultures, the Red-headed, White-rumped, and Slender-billed, with an excellent concealed viewing blind close to all the action. The site is located amidst some fine dry forest birding with many great possibilities, and is notably excellent for woodpeckers and in 2017, Giant Ibis.Seima is a large area of moist evergreen forest in the hills along the Vietnam border, with some very different species coming into Cambodia than we see elsewhere in the tour. Much of it is protected forest, but logging for valuable hardwoods is a serious problem, as is burning. Exciting species we’ve previously seen have included Germains’s Peacock-Pheasant, Green Peafowl, Banded and Silver-breasted Broadbill, Great Hornbill, Rufous-bellied Eagle, four species of Barbet including the very localized Annam (Indochinese) and Red-vented Barbet, Silver-eared Mesia, and many others. There’s also a chance of Scaly-breasted Partridge, or Bar-bellied Pitta if we can keep quiet and still for long enough!We had great views of this Mekong Wagtail on our tour in 2020. Photograph by participant Kathleen John.Itinerary for CambodiaDays 1-2, Sat-Sun, 3-4 Feb. Flights from US to Siem Reap. Most flights from US depart on Saturday and arrive in Siem Reap on Sunday. We’ll get together in the hotel lobby this evening for a short get-acquainted session; then, we’ll head to dinner, where we’ll discuss our plans for the tour. If you have the time, we urge you to come a day or two early in order to rest up before the tour or take a pre-tour with Cambodia Bird Guides Association. Night in Siem Reap.Day 3, Mon, 5 Feb. Siem Reap. Meet at hotel reception area 0600, then we’ll have some introductory birding amongst the paddyfields near Siem Reap in the morning, with a pack breakfast in the field. We will do some general birding around the city and look at the Flying Fox colony. Night at Siem Reap.Days 4-7, Tue-Fri, 6-9 Feb. Angkor and vicinity. We’ll have four relaxed but full days to spend in this rich and exciting area. We’ll tour the temple complex, visiting the incomparable and legendary Angkor Wat, and the gorgeous wooded ruins at Ta Prohm, and birding the temple grounds where there will be plenty of great photo opportunities, and a knowledgeable temple guide to explain various things.We’ll spend one full day at Lake Tonle Sap, traveling by boat out through the fascinating floating villages inhabited by fishermen and their families to the stork and heron breeding site at Prek Toal. Spot-billed Pelican, Oriental Darter, Greater and Lesser adjutants, Painted Stork, and Indian Cormorant are all likely, and there is a chance of Milky Stork.On another day we’ll drive to the wetlands at Ang Trepeang Thmor to look for Bronze-winged and Pheasant-tailed jacanas, Cinnamon and Yellow bitterns, Painted Storks, Sarus Crane, Pied Harrier, Spotted Wood Owl and Palearctic migrants. Nights at Siem Reap.Another day will see an early visit to Changkran Roy village conservation area where there is a blind set up at a water feature for good views of shy and elusive forest birds, that may include Bar-bellied Pitta. If we are successful, a return to the Angkor area may be possible for more birding and temple visiting.It is easy to see how the Greater Flameback got its common name. These large, spectacular woodpeckers are common across their range, and we should get good views of them. Photograph by participant Becky Hansen.Day 8, Sat, 10 Feb. Siem Reap to Tmatboey. Today is primarily a travel day and we will make an early start to drive to the grassland reserve at Kompong Thom where we’ll look for the very rare Bengal Florican at one of its last sites. We will then continue to the village ecolodge at Tmatboey, one of the last strongholds of the very rare Giant Ibis and White-shouldered Ibis. A number of other very interesting dry dipterocarp forest birds can be seen here as well and we will check for the rare White-rumped Falcon en route.We’ll have the next two days to devote to the ibis and special birds of the dry dipterocarp forests here. Other rare species we’ll be on the lookout for include White-shouldered Ibis, Brown Fish-Owl, Spotted Wood-Owl, and White-rumped Falcon, with Crested Treeswift, Common and Greater flamebacks, and White-bellied, Black-headed, Grey-headed, Rufous-bellied, Rufous, Yellow-crested and Great Slaty woodpeckers also in the area. We’ll spend tonight and the next night in Tmatboey in simple wooden chalets with mosquito nets. Night at Tmatboey Ecolodge.Days 9-10, Sun-Mon, 11-12 Feb. Birding the Tmatboey area. If needed we will depart our lodgings pre-dawn on the next day to reach the Giant Ibis roost sites before the birds depart, then bird the surrounding area for the rest of the morning. We’ll plan to take a break in the heat of the day and spend the late afternoons exploring other local sites. We’ll also do some optional owling on one evening. Nights at Tmatboey in simple wooden chalets with mosquito nets.Day 11, Tue, 13 Feb. Tmatboey to Baeng Toal Vulture restaurant. This morning we’ll head for the vulture conservation site at Baeng Toal. The villagers who live near the site will kill a cow, which they’ll put out as vulture food in hopes of attracting the three Critically Endangered species that occur here—Red-headed, Slender-billed, and White-rumped vultures. Widespread use of the veterinary pharmaceutical Diclofenac, which is extremely toxic to vultures, has decimated the populations with catastrophic 95% declines, and Baeng Toal is one of the last places to see them.We’ll stay in fixed tents with shared shower and toilet facilities for this one night. This is a great dry forest site, giving us chances for Savanna, and Large-tailed Nightjars, Brown-backed Needletail, Black-headed, Rufous-bellied and Great Slaty Woodpecker, Chestnut-tailed and Vinous-breasted Starling, plus other woodland birds and a chance of Red Muntjac and the rare Silver Langur. Night at Baeng Toal.Day 12, Wed, 14 Feb. Baeng Toal to Kratie. This morning, trusting that the cow has done the trick, we’ll view the vultures early on at the conservation site and then bird some surrounding areas. Then we’ll travel to Kratie, crossing the Mekong via the new bridge, and birding the Kratie area that afternoon where Watercock and Asian Golden Weaver are good possibilities. Night at Kratie.Day 13, Thu, 15 Feb. Mekong River at Kratie, then to Mondulkiri. We’ll take a 90-minute river trip from Kratie to look for Irrawaddy Dolphins, Mekong Wagtail and Small Pratincole on the Mekong River, then head up to Seima Forest and Mondulkiri, near the Vietnam border. Depending on how we are doing on time, we may have time for some late afternoon birding around Seima which, despite enduring illegal logging damage, holds good birds like several species of barbets, including Indochinese, Red-vented and Green-eared, plus assorted Green-Pigeons and various forest birds also found in nearby Vietnam. Overnight at Sen Monorom in a comfortable hotel.We had an amazing encounter with the rare Irrawaddy Dolphin on the Mekong River in 2019. We see these unusual small cetaceans on our river trip while searching for the Mekong Wagtail and other riverine species. Photograph by participant Becky Hansen.Day 14, Fri, 16 Feb. Birding Seima Forest, and lunch at Oromis Resort which has a very productive strip of riparian forest, before heading out to some other pieces of great microhabitats, including some higher elevation spots. Crimson and Black-throated Sunbirds, Asian Fairy Bluebird, Banded Broadbill, Bar-bellied Pitta, Green-eared, Red-vented and Indochinese Barbet, Phylloscopus warblers, Changeable Hawk Eagle, Black Eagle and maybe Scaly-breasted Partridge are all exciting possibilities, and we will try for Green Peafowl at some point. Overnight at Sen Monorom in a comfortable hotel.Day 15, Sat, 17 Feb. Seima Forest reserve sites, Oromis and Dak Dam. More birding around Seima Forest and Mondulkiri. Our itinerary on our last full day around Seima will be determined by what we have seen over the past day and a half in the area, and how productive the various spots in the area have been. Overnight at Sen Monorom in a comfortable hotel.Day 16, Sun, 18 Feb. Seima to Phnom Penh. We will leave early and try to visit a site by Seima Park HQ area before we then head the 3+ hours to the site of the recently discovered Cambodian Tailorbird which is actually in Greater Phnom Penh. After birding, we will check in to the hotel (which is very close to the airport) and have our final dinner together. If you wish, it may be possible to depart home after 8:00 pm (you will have a room for showering and repacking), otherwise depart next day. Overnight in Phnom Penh or on the flight home.Day 17, Mon, 19 Feb. Depart Phnom Penh for flights home. You will be transferred to the international airport in time for your (various) flights.About Your GuidePhil Gregory was born in the UK and became a birder when the steam engines were scrapped and birding offered a way to travel and look for wonderful things. The quest for birds has led to many forays in Europe, Africa, Asia, Australasia, and the Pacific. He and his wife, Sue, worked as teachers for eight years in Nigeria and Zambia, and for seven years in Papua New Guinea. Since 1997 they have lived in Australia.Phil's major interests are field identification, vocalizations, and the geographic distribution of birds. He has contributed to various reference books including The Handbook of Birds of the World and has now written 3 books: The Lynx Field Guide to the Birds of New Guinea and the Bismarck Archipelago (2017), A Field Guide to the Birds of North Queensland (with photos by Jun Matsui in 2018, second edition 2023) and a family monograph from Princeton / Pica on Birds of Paradise and Bowerbirds (2020).Phil and his wife, Sue sold the well-known Cassowary House at Kuranda, near Cairns in far north Queensland in early 2020, and have relocated to a rainforest property near Malanda on the Atherton Tablelands, which they share with his son and his wife plus 2 grandchildren and two large dogs. Look for Phil guiding Field Guides tours to Japan, Taiwan, Cambodia, Ghana, Mongolia and Madagascar.Visit https://fieldguides.com/our-staff/ for Phil’s complete tour schedule; just click on his photo."I had a wonderful time on the tour. Guide Phil Gregory is a world-class bird expert with a great personality who did an outstanding job as an expert guide and traveling partner." R.W., Papua New GuineaFinancial InformationFEE: $6575 from Siem Reap
DEPOSIT: $650
FINAL PAYMENT DUE: August 7, 2023
SINGLE SUPPLEMENT (Optional): $425 (**Singles may not be available at Tmatboey and Baeng Toal, however, if there is room available at these places we will arrange for singles at no cost.)
LIMIT: 8  All participants will be required to confirm they will have completed a full COVID vaccination course at least two weeks prior to the tour (which includes a booster for those eligible to have one). Note too, that many travel destinations may still require proof of vaccination for entry to bypass testing delays or quarantine, and that entry requirements for a destination can change at any time. Proof of a booster shot, too, may be a requirement for some travel destinations.Other Things You Need to KnowTOUR MANAGER: The manager for this tour is Karen Turner. Karen will be happy to assist you in preparing for the tour. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call her!DOCUMENTS: A current passport valid beyond the date of your return and a visa is necessary for US citizens to enter Cambodia. We recommend that your passport be valid for at least 6 months beyond the dates of your visit, as regulations vary from country to country, and are subject to change. We will send you visa forms and instructions with the tour packet. A Tourist Visa is now available on-line and has worked well, just print off two copies.If you are not a US citizen, please check with the Cambodian consulate nearest you for entry requirements. Information about consulates and entry requirements is generally available online or you can contact us and we will be happy to look this up for you. Passports should have an adequate number of blank pages for the entire journey. Some countries require a blank page for their stamp and as a precaution it is best to have one blank page per country you will visit or transit.AIR ARRANGEMENTS: Note: This tour starts in Siem Reap and ends in Phnom Penh. You can arrange your flights to arrive in Siem Reap anytime on February 4th. We encourage you to arrive a day early if possible. If you wish to come early, we would be happy to help with extra arrangements. On February 18, you can plan to depart from Phnom Penh after 8PM or any time on Feb 19. A room will be provided for the night of the 18th.Field Guides is a full-service travel agency and your tour manager will be happy to assist you with flights to join this tour. Field Guides does not charge a service fee for these services to clients booking a tour. However, we understand that tech-savvy clients often prefer to shop online or that you may wish to use mileage to purchase tickets. Regardless of which method you choose, your tour manager will be happy to provide assistance regarding ticket prices and schedules, along with rental cars and extra hotel nights as needed.Please be sure to check with your tour manager prior to purchasing your ticket to make sure the flights you have chosen will work well with the tour itinerary and that the tour is sufficiently subscribed to operate. Once purchased, most airline tickets are non-refundable and carry a penalty to change. Field Guides cannot be responsible for these fees. Also, it is imperative that we receive a copy of your comprehensive flight itinerary—including any and all flights not covered in the tour fee—so that we may track you in the event of missed connections, delays, or other mishaps.LUGGAGE: Please be aware that many airlines have recently modified their luggage policies and are charging additional fees for checked bags. Updates could easily occur before your departure, so you may wish to contact your airline to verify the policy. Additional charges for bags on any flights, whether these are covered by the tour fee or not, will be the client’s responsibility.TOUR INCLUSIONS/EXCLUSIONS: The tour fee is $6575 for one person in double occupancy from Siem Reap. It includes all lodging from Day 2 through Day 16 (checking out Day 17), all meals from dinner on day 2 through dinner on Day 16, all ground transportation, entrance fees, tips for baggage handling and meal service, and the guide services of the tour leader(s).The above fee does not include your airfare to and from Siem Reap, airport taxes, visa fees, any checked or carry-on baggage charges imposed by the airlines, any alcoholic beverages, optional tips to local drivers, phone calls, laundry, or other items of a personal nature. If you would like to recognize your Field Guides leader(s) or any local guide(s) for exceptional service, it is entirely appropriate to tip. We emphasize that such tips are optional and not expected.The single supplement for the tour is $425. Singles may not be available at Tmatboey and Baeng Toal. Cost for singles at these two places is not included in the single supplement; if singles are available, we will accommodate you at no extra charge. If you do not have a roommate but wish to share, we will try to pair you with a roommate from the tour; but if none is available, you will be billed for the single supplement. Our tour fees are based on double occupancy; one-half the cost of a double room is priced into the tour fee. The single supplement is calculated by taking the actual cost of a single room and subtracting one-half the cost of a double room (plus any applicable taxes).TOUR REGISTRATION: To register for this tour, please contact us at fieldguides.com/contact-us/. Our office will be in touch with you by email by the next business day (Mon-Fri) with instructions on how to complete our new electronic registration form and medical questionnaire. (We are no longer accepting the paper version.)Please mail your deposit of $650 per person, or see https://fieldguides.com/payment-options/ for our Payment Options. Full payment of the tour fee is due 180 days prior to departure, or by August 7, 2023. We will bill you for the final payment at either 180 days or when the tour has reached sufficient subscription to operate, whichever date comes later.Since the cost of your trip insurance and airline tickets is generally non-refundable, please do not finalize these purchases until you have received final billing for the tour or have been advised that the tour is sufficiently subscribed to operate by your tour manager.SMOKING: Almost all of our clients prefer a smoke-free environment. If you smoke, please be sensitive to the group and refrain from smoking at meals, in vehicles, and in proximity to the group on trails and elsewhere.CANCELLATION POLICY: Refund of deposit and payment, less $100 handling fee, will be made if cancellation is received up to 180 days before departure. If cancellation occurs between 179 and 90 days before the departure date, 50% of the tour fee is refundable. Thereafter, all deposits and payments are not refundable and non- transferable.Our cancellation policy only applies to payments made to Field Guides for tour (and any services included in those fees). Airline tickets not included in the tour fee and purchased separately often carry penalties for cancellation or change, or are sometimes totally non-refundable. Additionally, if you take out trip insurance the cost of that insurance is not refundable, so it is best to purchase the policy just prior to making full payment for the tour or at the time you purchase airline tickets, depending upon the airline’s restrictions.The right is reserved to cancel any tour prior to departure. In most such cases, full refund will constitute full settlement to the passenger. Note this exception, however: If you have been advised pre-tour that there is a non-refundable portion of your tour fee no matter the reason for Field Guides cancellation of the tour, that portion will not be refunded. The right is reserved to substitute in case of emergency another guide for the original one.TRIP CANCELLATION & MEDICAL EMERGENCY INSURANCE: We strongly recommend you consider purchasing trip cancellation (including medical emergency) insurance to cover your investment in case of injury or illness to you or your family prior to or during a trip. Because we must remit early (and substantial) tour deposits to our suppliers, you acknowledge and agree that we will not issue a refund when cancellation occurs outside of our cancellation policy as published in the itinerary (see CANCELLATION POLICY). In addition, the Department of State strongly urges Americans to consult with their medical insurance company prior to traveling abroad to confirm whether their policy applies overseas and if it will cover emergency expenses such as a medical evacuation. US medical insurance plans seldom cover health costs incurred outside the United States unless supplemental coverage is purchased. Furthermore, US Medicare and Medicaid programs do not provide payment for medical services outside the United States.When making a decision regarding health insurance, Americans should consider that many foreign doctors and hospitals require payment in cash prior to providing service and that a medical evacuation to the United States may cost well in excess of $50,000. Uninsured travelers who require medical care overseas often face extreme difficulties. When consulting with your insurer prior to your trip, please ascertain whether payment will be made to the overseas healthcare provider or whether you will be reimbursed later for expenses that you incur.US citizens will receive information from us regarding optional tour cancellation/emergency medical insurance. Our agent, CSA, will insure for trip cancellation and interruption, medical coverage, travel delay, baggage loss and delay, and emergency medical transportation. If you purchase the insurance prior to, or within 24 hours of making final payment for the tour, and cover all non-refundable parts of the trip (including any non-refundable flights and in some cases, other arrangements), pre-existing conditions are covered. You may purchase your CSA policy on-line by visiting our website at https://fieldguides.com/trip-cancellation-insurance/ and clicking the link to CSA. The CSA webpage also includes a contact number.Currently we are unable to offer CSA insurance policies to residents of New York and Hawaii. We have had clients provide positive feedback after acquiring insurance thru InsureMyTrip (https://www.insuremytrip.com/) in the past, and would suggest that company as an alternative. When purchasing insurance with a company other than CSA, you will want to understand whether the timing of your purchase will affect coverage before paying your first deposit. Insurance purchase requirements can vary from company to company, and such requirements could limit your options if you do not look into this until making your final payment for your tour. Please let us know if you have any questions about this.Please note, once the insurance is purchased it is non-refundable, so please check with your tour manager prior to making the purchase to assure the tour will operate as scheduled. Citizens of other countries are urged to consult their insurance broker.RESPONSIBILITY: For and in consideration of the opportunity to participate in the tour, each tour participant and each parent or legal guardian of a tour participant who is under 18 agrees to release, indemnify, and hold harmless Field Guides Incorporated, its agents, servants, employees, shareholders, officers, directors, attorneys, and contractors as more fully set forth in the Release and Indemnity Agreement on the registration form. Field Guides Incorporated acts only as an agent for the passenger in regard to travel, whether by railroad, motorcar, motorcoach, boat, airplane, or other means, and assumes no liability for injury, damage, loss, accident, delay, or irregularity caused by defect in such vehicles or for any reason whatsoever, including the acts, defaults, or bankruptcies of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger or in carrying out the arrangements of the tour. You acknowledge and agree that Field Guides Incorporated is not responsible for losses or additional expenses due to delay or changes in air or other services, sickness, weather, strike, war, quarantine, or other causes. The tour participant shall bear all such losses and expenses. Field Guides Incorporated reserves the right to substitute hotels of similar category for those indicated and to make any changes in the itinerary where deemed necessary or caused by changes in air schedules. Field Guides Incorporated reserves the right to decline to accept or to retain any person as a member of any tour. Baggage is at owner’s risk entirely.Participants should be in good health and should consult a physician before undertaking a tour. If you have questions about the physical requirements of a tour, please contact our office for further information. Participants should prepare for the tour by reading the detailed itinerary, the information bulletin, and other pertinent matter provided by Field Guides. Each participant is responsible for bringing appropriate clothing and equipment as recommended in our bulletins.THE RECEIPT OF YOUR TOUR DEPOSIT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE CONSENT TO THE ABOVE CONDITIONS. EACH TOUR PARTICIPANT AND EACH PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN OF A TOUR PARTICIPANT WHO IS UNDER 18 SHALL SIGN AND DELIVER THE RELEASE AND INDEMNITY AGREEMENT AT THE TIME OF REGISTRATION.NCP 7/2020  3/23 PG
6/20peg; 9/22peg; 6/23 peg